Adds CLI for Microsoft 365 MCP Server guide (#6817)
pnp/cli-microsoft365: docs/docs/user-guide/using-cli-mcp-server.mdx

Before you start please be sure you have the following prerequisites:

- Node.js 20.x or higher
- CLI for Microsoft 365 installed globally (npm i -g @pnp/cli-microsoft365@latest)
- CLI for Microsoft 365 setup with your Microsoft 365 tenant - you may use [m365 setup](../cmd/setup) command

After you have done the prerequisites, you should update the CLI for Microsoft 365 configuration for best experience with MCP Server. Run the following commands:

```powershell
m365 cli config set --key prompt --value false
m365 cli config set --key output --value text
m365 cli config set --key helpMode --value full
```

This will ensure that the MCP server will get as much information as possible from the CLI for Microsoft 365 when an error occurs or when a command is not executed properly.

The MCP Server is installed as a Node.js package. You can install it globally using the following command:

The MCP server will not do any authentication for you. You will need to first authenticate using CLI for Microsoft 365 using [m365 login](../cmd/login) command. Once you are authenticated, the MCP server will use the same authentication context when running any tool.

## Add MCP to VS Code

> This MCP server may work with any MCP client you prefer. To do that refer to the instructions of the picked MCP host. Below, you may find guidance for VS Code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This MCP server works with any MCP client you prefer. To achieve that, refer to the instructions of your preferred MCP host. Here's how to do it in VS Code.
```

> 1. Open the Command Palette (Ctrl+Shift+P or Cmd+Shift+P on macOS) and type MCP: Add Server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Open the Command Palette (`Ctrl+Shift+P` or `Cmd+Shift+P` on macOS) and type `MCP: Add Server`.
```

> 2. Select Command (stdio) as the server type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Select `Command (stdio)` as the server type.
```

3. Enter the command to run the MCP server, which is:

```powershell
npx -y @pnp/cli-microsoft365-mcp-server@latest

> ```

Reviewer: If we give this code fence a few indents to the right, it will go under the 3rd bullet instead of standing apart from the bullet list.

4. Name the server (e.g., CLI for Microsoft 365 MCP Server).

> As a result, you should have the following configuration in your .vscode/mcp.json file:
> 
> ```json
> {
>     "servers": {
>         "CLI for Microsoft 365 MCP Server": {
>             "type": "stdio",
>             "command": "npx",
>             "args": [
>                 "-y",
>                 "@pnp/cli-microsoft365-mcp-server@latest"
>           ]
>         }
>     }
> }
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a result, you should have the following configuration:

```json title="/.vscode/mcp.json"
{
    "servers": {
        "CLI for Microsoft 365 MCP Server": {
            "type": "stdio",
            "command": "npx",
            "args": [
                "-y",
                "@pnp/cli-microsoft365-mcp-server@latest"
          ]
        }
    }
}
```
```

> ```

Reviewer: Let's use an indentation of 2 spaces like we do everywhere else in the docs.

## Using MCP Server

> The below uses cases are only a few example how you may use this MCP server. It is capable of handling many different tasks, so feel free to experiment with it and basically manage all of Microsoft 365 using natural language.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following uses cases are only a few examples of how you may use this MCP server. It is capable of handling many different tasks, so feel free to experiment with it and manage all of Microsoft 365 using natural language.
```

Also you may check the [wiki](https://github.com/pnp/cli-microsoft365-mcp-server/wiki) to find more [scenarios](https://github.com/pnp/cli-microsoft365-mcp-server/wiki/1.-Scenarios) how ClI for Microsoft 365 MCP Server can be used to manage Microsoft 365.

### Manage SharePoint Online

In the following example, the MCP server created a SharePoint list with new columns and populated it with a few test items.

> prompt: 

Reviewer: Let's put the prompt in code fences.

> "Add a new list to this site with title "awesome ducks". Then add new columns to that list including them in the default view. The first should be a text description columns and the second one should be a user column.
> Then add 3 items to this list with some funny jokes about docs added in the description column and adding my user in the user column. use emojis 🙂"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
"Add a new list to the site with title "awesome ducks". Then add new columns to that list including them in the default view. The first should be a text description column and the second should be a user column.
Finally, add 3 items to this list with some funny jokes about docs, added to the description column and assign my user to the user column. Use emojis 🙂"
```

![Screenshot of Visual Studio Code with GitHub Copilot chat with a prompt to create a new SharePoint list and a web browser presenting the newly created SharePoint list with newly created columns and items](../images/cli-mcp-server/mcp-example-1.png)

### Manage Microsoft Teams

The following example shows how to create a new Microsoft Teams team and add a welcome post to the General channel.

prompt:

> "Create a new Team on Teams with name "Awesome Ducks" and in the General channel adda a welcome post"

Reviewer: Also a fan of putting this into code fences.

![Screenshot of Visual Studio Code with GitHub Copilot chat with a prompt to create a new Teams team and add a welcome post to the general channel and a web browser presenting the newly created Teams team with the welcome post](../images/cli-mcp-server/mcp-example-2.png)

### Manage Power Platform solutions 

In the example, the MCP server disables a Power Automate flow.

prompt:

> "can you check if I have HoursReportingReminder flow and if so disable it"

Reviewer: Code fences

![Screenshot of Visual Studio Code with GitHub Copilot chat with a prompt to disable a PowerAutomate Flow and a web browser presenting the list of flows with one being disabled from the prompt](../images/cli-mcp-server/mcp-example-3.png)

### Manage Planner

In the following example, the MCP server creates a new Planner plan with sample buckets and tasks.

prompt:

> "can you create a new plan in planner to manage work for the awesome ducks. I need some sample buckets and tasks to get started"

Reviewer: Code fences

### Manage SharePoint Online

In the following example, the MCP server created a SharePoint list with new columns and populated it with a few test items.

prompt: 

```
Add a new list to the site with title "awesome ducks". Then add new columns to that list including them in the default view. The first should be a text description column and the second should be a user column.
Finally, add 3 items to this list with some funny jokes about docs, added to the description column and assign my user to the user column. Use emojis 🙂
```

![Screenshot of Visual Studio Code with GitHub Copilot chat with a prompt to create a new SharePoint list and a web browser presenting the newly created SharePoint list with newly created columns and items](../images/cli-mcp-server/mcp-example-1.png)

### Manage Microsoft Teams

The following example shows how to create a new Microsoft Teams team and add a welcome post to the General channel.

prompt:

```

>   Create a new Team on Teams with name "Awesome Ducks", and in the General channel add a welcome post

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a new Team on Teams with name "Awesome Ducks", and in the General channel add a welcome post
```

```

![Screenshot of Visual Studio Code with GitHub Copilot chat with a prompt to create a new Teams team and add a welcome post to the general channel and a web browser presenting the newly created Teams team with the welcome post](../images/cli-mcp-server/mcp-example-2.png)

### Manage Power Platform solutions 

In the example, the MCP server disables a Power Automate flow.

prompt:

```

>   can you check if I have HoursReportingReminder flow and if so disable it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Can you check if I have HoursReportingReminder flow and if so disable it
```

```

![Screenshot of Visual Studio Code with GitHub Copilot chat with a prompt to disable a Power Automate Flow and a web browser presenting the list of flows with one being disabled from the prompt](../images/cli-mcp-server/mcp-example-3.png)

### Manage Planner

In the following example, the MCP server creates a new Planner plan with sample buckets and tasks.

prompt:

```

>   can you create a new plan in planner to manage work for the awesome ducks. I need some sample buckets and tasks to get started

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Can you create a new plan in planner to manage work for the awesome ducks. I need some sample buckets and tasks to get started
```
